# NuGet and Npm packages

Pathfinder uses NuGet and Npm packages for many things - packaging a project, dependency tracking, 
extensions etc.

Currently this section focuses on NuGet as the default packacking mechanism, but Npm support is planned.
Ultimately you should be able to pick whatever format, you like.

## Packaing a project
The `pack-nuget` task iterates over all .nuspec files in the [Project]/sitecore.project directory. For each
file, it generates a .nupkg file. This means that you can generate multiple output packages from a project.

The .nuspec file may contain tokens, that are replaced at runtime.

|Name|Description| 
|----|-----------| 
|$toolsDirectory$|Path to the [Tools] directory. | 
|$projectDirectory$|Path to the [Project] directory. | 
|$projectUniqueId$|Project Unique ID from scconfig.json. | 
|$safeProjectUniqueId$|Project Unique ID without illigal characters. | 
|$dependencies$|List of dependencies. Dependencies are listed in the packages.config and scconfig.json files| 

Additional tokens can be added in the scconfig.json under `pack-nuget:tokens:*`.

Inside the .nupkg file, the project must be placed in the /project folder, and any .dll files should be placed 
in the /lib/net40 folder. This ensures that the package can be used in Visual Studio as a reference package
without extracting all project files to Visual Studio.

## Dependencies
You can specify dependencies in both [Project]/scconfig.json and [Project]/packages.config.
Using scconfig.json, you can have dependencies in multiple configurations files. Using packages.config,
you are compatible with Visual Studio.

Pathfinder uses the specified list of dependencies, so you *must* specify a dependency in either
scconfig.json or packages.config. Just installing the package is not enough.

Using scconfig.json:
```js
"dependencies": {
    "Sitecore.Pathfinder.Core" : "1.0.0"
}
```

Using packages.config:
```xml
<packages>
    <package id="Sitecore.Pathfinder.Core" version="1.0.0" />
</packages>
```

By default every package has a dependency on Sitecore.Pathfinder.Core, which is why it is defined in the
[Tools]/scconfig.json.

## NuGet repositories

You can specify NuGet repositories in number of places.

| Configuration            | Description | 
| ------------------------ | ----------- | 
| packages:nuget-directory | Repository in project directory (usually /packages). This is used when installing a package on the website. | 
| nuget-repositories:*     | General list of NuGet repositories. | 

When installing, Pathfinder automatically adds [Tools]/files/repository/sitecore.project/packages as a repository.

## Installing a project

Pathfinder installs a project by making a request to the installer on the website, passing
the ID of the package to install and a list of feeds. The feeds are directories where the installer searches
for packages to install. By default these are [Project]/sitecore.project for the output packages and
[Project]/packages for dependencies.

As such, Pathfinder does not copy the .nupkg files to website - the NuGet installer does that for Pathfinder.
Packages are unpacked in the website in the [Data]/pathfinder/packages directory.

This process requries the website to have read access to the project directory.

Alternatively, you can copy the output packages and dependencies to a shared directory, and specify this 
directory in the `nuget-repositories` setting.

## Extensions

You can also specify extensions in a package. On startup Pathfinder will scan the directories specified 
in the `packages:nuget-directory` and `packages:npm-directories` settings for .dll files and load
each found file as an extension. By default, `packages:nuget-directory` points to [Project]/packages
and `packages:npm-directories` points to [Project]/node_modules.

The [Project]/packages directory may have a lot of directories and files, so you have to mark your
package as something, Pathfinder should try to load as an extension. You do this by placing a file named
'pathfinder.extension.manifest' in the directory. Currently the file can be empty. If the directory does 
not contain such a file, Pathfinder will ignore the directory.

The same is applicable to [Project]/node_modules, except the file must be named 'pathfinder.extension.json'.

