# Building a project
The build tool chain is specified in the build-project/tasks configuration setting. The default value is 
``"restore-packages check-project write-exports pack-nuget install-package publish-database show-website show-metrics"``.

1. Restore any missing dependency packages.
1. Check the project for warnings and errors. Any errors will stop the build.
1. Writes export declarations to the [Project]/sitecore.project/exports.xml file.
1. Create a NuGet package from the project.
1. Install the package by making a request to the website: [Website]/sitecore/shell/client/Applications/Pathfinder/InstallPackage
1. Publish the Master database by making a request to the website: [Website]/sitecore/shell/client/Applications/Pathfinder/Publish
1. Open the website in a browser, if a start URL has been specified.
1. Show project status.

## Alternate tasks configuration
By default Pathfinder will execute the tasks specified in the `build-project:tasks` configuration, but you easily can execute other tasks.

1. Specify the task to execute directly on the command-line: e.g. `scc publish-database`.
1. Specify the `run` configuration on the command-line to execute a list of tasks.
1. Specify an alternative tasks list in configuration and execute it on the command line, e.g.:
    ```js
    {
        "compile-project": {
            "tasks" : "restore-packages check-project show-metrics"
        }
    }
    ```
    To run, execute `scc compile-project`
4. Specify an new configuration file on the command-line to overlay the existing configuration: `scc /config myconfig.json`.

## Dependencies and exports
A project can declare items and resources that are used by other projects. The `write-exports` task writes export declarations of all
items and templates in the project to the [Project]/sitecore.project/exports.xml file.

When a project is being compiled, Pathfinder will look for NuGet packages in the [Project]/sitecore.project/packages directory and 
extract any exports.xml files. All declared items and templates are added to the project as external references.

### Dependency packages
A project can depend on other NuGet packages using the standard NuGet dependency mechanism. Dependency packages are located in the
[Project]/packages directory. As part of deploying these packages are copied to the website and installed.

To add a new dependency package, add it to the `dependencies` configuration section or add it to the packages.config file. 

```js
"dependencies": {
    "Sitecore.BusinessComponentLibrary": "1.0.0",
    "Sitecore.Core": "1.0.0",
    "Sitecore.Launchpad": "1.0.0",
    "Sitecore.Speak": "1.0.0"
}
```

Standard Sitecore Packages cannot be used directly as dependencies since NuGet does not understand Sitecore packages. Instead you have to wrap
a Sitecore Package in a NuGet package. There are different way to do this. 

First of all you can convert the Sitecore Package to a NuGet package using a community tool like this

* [CreateSitecoreNuGetPackage](http://hermanussen.eu/sitecore/wordpress/2013/05/turn----any----sitecore----package----into----a----NuGet----package/) by Robin Hermanussen

Alternatively Pathfinder contains the 'pack-dependencies' task that simply converts all *.zip files in the [Project]/sitecore.project/packages directory 
to NuGet packages. For each zip file it creates a NuGet package where the zip files is located in the content/packages directory in the .nupkg file. 
Pathfinder understands, that any zip files in the content/packages directory is a Sitecore Package and installs it.

Finally you can create the NuGet package manually by creating a Nuspec file like this:

```xml
<package xmlns=\"http://schemas.microsoft.com/packaging/2010/07/nuspec.xsd\">
    <metadata>
        <id>MyPackage</id>
        <title>My Package</title>
        <version>1.0.0</version>
        <authors>Me</authors>
        <requireLicenseAcceptance>false</requireLicenseAcceptance>
        <description>My package</description>
    </metadata>
    <files>
        <file src="mypackage.zip" target="content\packages\mypackage.zip"/>
    </files>
</package>
```
