#Tasks and scripts

## Tasks
The Pathfinder compiler supports a number of tasks and these tasks make up the tool chain. Most tasks provide functionality for 
compiling and deploying a package.

To execute a task run `scc [task name]` from the command line. If you do not specify a task name, the 'build-project' task is
executed.

Task Name | Description
----------|------------
check-project | Checks the project for warnings and errors.
copy-dependencies | Copies the dependency packages to the website.
copy-package | Copies the project output to the website.
find-references | Finds all project items that the specified project item references.
find-usages | Finds all project items that references the specified project item.
generate-code | Generates code from items and files in the project.
help | Displays version information and a list of commands.
import-website | Imports items and files from the website.
init-atom | Creates a new Atom project.
init-visualstudio | Creates a new Visual Studio project.
init-vscode | Creates a new Visual Studio Code project.
install-addin | Installs a file from the repository.
install-package | Unpacks and installs the project package (including dependencies) in the website.
install-project | Installs the project directly from the project directory.
list-addins | Lists the available files in the repository.
list-files | Lists the files in the project.
list-items | Lists the Sitecore items in the project.
list-project | Lists the project items (Sitecore items and files).
new-project | Creates a new Pathfinder project.
pack-dependencies | Creates a Nuget package for Sitecore package in the sitecore.tools\packages directory.
pack-nuget | Creates packages from the project.
publish-database | Publishes a Sitecore database (usually the master database).
rename | Finds all project items that references the specified project item.
reset-website | Resets the website.
run-script | Runs a PowerShell, .cmd or .bat script.
show-metrics | Shows various information about the project.
sync-website | Synchronizes project and the website.
troubleshoot-website | Tries to fix a non-working website.
update-addins | Updates installed add-ins.
update-mappings | Updates the project/website mapping on the website.
validate-website | Runs the Sitecore Rocks SitecoreCop on the website.
watch-project | Watches the project directory and install changes immediately.
write-exports | Writes export declarations
write-serialization | Writes all items to a serialization folder
write-website-exports | Write website exports.

## Scripts (PowerShell, .cmd, .bat)
It is possible to run scripts (PowerShell, .cmd or .bat) through Pathfinder, e.g. `scc install-fakedb.ps1`. Whenever a
task name ends with ".ps1", ".cmd" or ".bat", the task is assumed to be a script file.

Pathfinder will look in the [Project]/sitecore.project/scripts and [Tools]/files/scripts directories for the script file.

For PowerShell scripts Pathfinder passes the build context object, [Tools], [Project], [Website] and [Data] directories
as parameters.
