# Installing on a website 
The package is installed by making a request to the [Website]/sitecore/shell/client/Applications/Pathfinder/InstallPackage with the name of the 
package on the query string. This webpage uses NuGet to unpack the files to the [DataFolder]/pathfinder/packages directory. Once the files 
are available, Pathfinder rebuilds the project and emits items and files to the website.

Any dependency packages are unpacked before the package and are processed in the same way.

## Handling renames and deletions
When installing a package some items may have been renamed or deleted. Renames can be handled, if the renamed items preserves its ID.

When an item is created or updated by Pathfinder, the Project Unique ID is stamped into the `__PathfinderProjectUniqueID` in the
Advanced section of the item. The field can hold multiple Project Unique IDs.

After a package has been installed, Pathfinder iterates over all Sitecore items that contain the Project Unique ID in the
`__PathfinderProjectUniqueID` field. If the item is not in the package, the item has been either renamed or deleted. 

If the item has more than one Project Unique ID in the `__PathfinderProjectUniqueID` field, the project unique id is removed from 
the field. If the item has exactly one, the item is deleted.

Please be aware, that if a packages for some reason contains an item, that is already in the database, the Project Unique ID is
stamped into that item. If the item is subsequently removed from the package, Pathfinder will delete item.

## Non-destructive install
If you enable 3 way merging, Pathfinder will not overwrite fields, that have been changed in the database. Only fields that have
been changed in the project will be updated.

The is done through standard 3 way merging, where Pathfinder writes previous field values to a storage, and when installing
compares old and new values with the value in the storage.
