# Serializing items from website to project
Normally items flow from the project to the website, meaning that you create items as files in the project and when the project is
built and deployed the items are installed in the website.

However, if you want to use the web client, Sitecore Rocks, DB Browser or another tools to edit items, you can. You can enable the Serializing
Data Provider which will serialize changed items back to the project.

This feature is heavily inspired by [Unicorn](https://github.com/kamsar/Unicorn) by Kam Figy and all credits should go to him. The serialization 
part of Unicorn is superior to the Serializing Data Provider. The reason Pathfinder has it's own implementation is that we cannot take a 
hard dependency on Unicorn - it has to be an optional component.

To enable the Serializing Data Provider, you must first setup the mappings between project and website in the 'project-website-mappings'
section in the scconfig.json file. The Serializing Data Provider will read this section to determine which, how and where to serialize 
items.

For the CleanBlog startkit, the section looks like this:

```js
"project-website-mappings": {
    "project-to-website": {
    },

    "website-to-project": {
        "clean-blog-content": {
            "item-path-to-project-directory": "/sitecore/content/Home/CleanBlog => /items/master/sitecore/content/Home/CleanBlog",
            "format": "item.xml"
        },
        "clean-blog-media": {
            "item-path-to-project-directory": "/sitecore/media library/CleanBlog => /wwwroot/img",
            "format": "item.xml" 
        },
        "clean-blog-templates": {
            "item-path-to-project-directory": "/sitecore/templates/CleanBlog => /items/master/sitecore/templates/CleanBlog",
            "format": "item.xml" 
        },
        "clean-blog-css": {
            "website-directory-to-project-directory": "/css => /wwwroot/css" 
        },
        "clean-blog-js": {
            "website-directory-to-project-directory": "/js => /wwwroot/js" 
        },
        "clean-blog-renderings-files": {
            "website-directory-to-project-directory": "/CleanBlog/layout/renderings => /wwwroot" 
        }
    }
}
```

Next you must rename the [Website]/App_Config/include/Sitecore.Pathfinder.SerializingDataProvider.config.disabled to
[Website]/App_Config/include/Sitecore.Pathfinder.SerializingDataProvider.config.

Finally you should execute the `scc update-mappings` task to make sure the website has read any updated configuration. This should
not really be necessary since the configuration are read on startup, but better safe than sorry.

