# Project conventions
Conventions are rules that a project should follow. Usually they depend on the project role. The Convention checker is the checker, that validates
the project against the conventions.

Conventions are configured in the scconfig.json in the "check-project:conventions" setting. As mentioned the conventions are rules and are 
specified as rules (which should be familiar to Sitecore people). Below is an example of a convention rule:

```js
"default-convention-0": {
    "filter": "items",
    "if": {
        "or": {
            "template-name-0": "Template",
            "template-name-1": "Template Folder",
            "template-name-2": "Template Section",
            "template-name-3": "Template Field" 
        },
        "not": { "item-id-or-path": { "starts-with": "/sitecore/templates/" } }
    },
    "then": {
        "trace-warning": "All items with template 'Template', 'Template section', 'Template field' and 'Template folder' should be located in the '/sitecore/templates' section. To fix, move the template into the '/sitecore/templates' section"
    }
},
```

For all items, if the template of the item is 'Template', 'Template folder', 'Template section' or 'Template field', and the item path does not 
start with "/sitecore/templates", write a warning. Basically this rules checks for templates outside the /sitecore/templates section - please notice
that it is perfectly possible to have templates outside the templates section - it is only by convention, that templates are located there.

The conditions "template-name-0", "template-name-1", "template-name-2" etc. look odd, but this necessary, since Json requires each property to be 
uniquely named. When Pathfinder parses a rule, it will match the condition and action names on the beginning of the string, not the entire string. 
This works around the Json requirement (but looks a little odd).

As can be seen rules can be very expressive, but sometimes you need a little extra. It is possible to evaluate XPath expressions as part of 
a rule. Here is a rule, that uses XPath.

```js
"default-convention-2": {
    "filter": "items",
    "if": {
        "item-name": "__Standard Values",
        "eval-xpath": "@@templateId != ../@@id"
    },
    "then": {
        "trace-warning": {
            "text": "The Template ID of a Standard Values item should be match the ID of the parent item. To fix, moved the Standard Values item under the correct template"
        }
    }
},
```
For all items, if the item name is "__Standard Values" and the template Id does not match the Id of the parent, write a warning. This checks for
standard value items with the wrong template.

Beyond the special "eval-xpath" condition, any value in a rule can be an XPath expression by prefixing the expression with "xpath:".

Conditions and actions are fully extendable and you provide your own in extensions (see extensions).
