# Layout engines

## Sitecore rendering engine
Pathfinder supports the Sitecore Rendering Engine by supporting a special format for the __Rendering field. 
The format is similar to Html and Xaml, and is parsed when the package is installed into Xml format, that 
Sitecore expects. 

Here is an example of the format in Json.
```js
{
    "Layout": {
        "Devices": [
            {
                "Name": "Default",
                "Layout": "/sitecore/layout/layouts/MvcLayout",
                "Renderings": [
                    {
                      "HelloWorld": {
                      } 
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

## Layout files
Creating a layout definition can sometimes be a a bit overkill and complicate things unnecessaryly. Pathfinder simplifies
layouts by adding a `Layout.File` attribute on items and templates. This attribute points to a file which will be rendered
by the Sitecore Rendering Engine.

```js
{
  "Item": {
    "Layout.File": "~/layout/renderings/HtmlTemplate.html",
  }
}
```

Behind the scenes Pathfinder compiles the file to a layout definition, so you can take full advantage of the Rendering Engine.

Supported file formats are:

* .cshtml
* .aspx
* .html
* .jsx
* .page.html
* .layoutfile.xml (to be renamed)
* .layoutfile.json (to be renamed)
* .layoutfile.yaml (to be renamed)
           

## .html
[Watch the video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aTGhW6ErYM)

Html Templates are not as powerful as the full Sitecore Rendering Engine, placeholders or using MVC views.

On an item, you specify the file name of the Html Template, you want to use, in the "Layout.File" property (please notice 
that this property has been renamed from the video where it was called "HtmlTemplate").
The Html Template is a Html file that also supports Mustache like tags.

```html
<h1>Fields</h1>
<p>
    {{Title}}
</p>
<p>
    {{Text}}
</p>
{{> Footer.html}}
```

The `{{Title}}` tags will be replace with the Title field in the current context item.

Please notice that Mustache lists and partials are supported (see the Footer tag in the last line). Pathfinder extends the 
Mustache syntax to support Sitecore placeholders - the tag `{{% placeholder-name}}` will be rendered as a Sitecore
placeholder.

Pathfinder creates .html as View renderings and these renderings can used as any other Sitecore rendering.

## .jsx
Pathfinder has experimental support for React Jsx files using ReactJs.NET. This means that you can use .jsx files as renderings.

## .page.html
The .page.html format is Html with support for inline Sitecore renderings.

```html
<html xmlns:r="http://www.sitecore.net/pathfinder/rendering" xmlns:p="http://www.sitecore.net/pathfinder/placeholder" xmlns:f="http://www.sitecore.net/pathfinder/field">
<head>
</head>
<body>
    This is Html.
    <r:HelloWorld>
        <p:Content>
           <h1><f:PageTitle /></h1>
        </p:Content>
    </r:HelloWorld>
</body>
</html>
```

The `r:HelloWorld` tag is a standard Sitecore rendering which exposes the `Content` placeholder. The `f:PageTitle` is a field on 
the current context item - please notice that the PageTitle is enclosed in Html `h1` tags.

This format is similar to .jsx without requiring React.