# Extensibility
Pathfinder uses [MEF](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd460648(v=vs.110).aspx) internally and is fully pluggable. 

## Extensions
Pathfinder includes the Roslyn compiler to compile extensions on the fly. Extensions are C# files that are compiled and loaded dynamically through 
[MEF](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd460648(v=vs.110).aspx). This allows you to extend Pathfinder with new tasks, checkers, code 
generation handler and much more. 

When Pathfinder starts it looks through the [Tools]/files/extensions, [Project]/sitecore.project/extensions and [Project]/node_modules
directories to find any extension files, and if any file is newer than the Sitecore.Pathfinder.Extensions.dll assembly, it recompiles 
the files and saves the output as Sitecore.Pathfinder.Extensions.dll.

For instance to make a new checker, duplicate a file in [Tools]/files/extensions/checkers and start Pathfinder. Pathfinder will detect the
new file and recompile the assembly.

Please notice that Roslyn cannot be copied to the website, since Sitecore is not yet compatible with the .NET Core frameworks. 
The compiled extension assemblies are included in the deployment packages and loaded during install on the server.

### Npm modules
Extension can be installed using Npm modules. As mentioned above Pathfinder scans the [Project]/node_modules on startup.

Since a project may contain many Node modules, Pathfinder looks for a manifest file named "pathfinder.json" in the first level of
directories under [Project]/node_modules. Only directories that contain a manifest file, will be added as a extension.

The manifest is just a marker and can be empty (for now).

Any assemblies in the directory are loaded. Any C# files are compiled.

## Website only assemblies
Some extension assemblies are only intended to be loaded on the website. This is typically if the assembly contains types, that
inherit from types in either Sitecore.Kernel or Sitecore.Mvc. Such types will cause MEF in Pathfinder to throw an exception in 
tasks where a website has not been configured, e.g. new-project or add-project.

Such types should be located in assemblies that follow the server-side naming convention. The convention specifies, that the
file name of the assembly must match "Sitecore.Pathfinder.Server.*.dll". These assemblies are only loaded on the website - not
in the project.
