Task Reference
==============

## add-project
The `add-project` task copies Pathfinder files to the project directory. 

The tasks copies all files from [Tools]/files/project to the project directory.

This is useful when creating a Pathfinder project in an already existing project directory. 

#### Examples
```cmd
scc add-project
```

## check-project
The `check-project` tasks outputs project diagnostics (errors and warnings).

If the project has not yet been loaded, the task loads and compiles the project. Any 
diagnostics are outputted. 

#### Examples
```cmd
scc check-project
```

## clean-website
The `clean-website` task removes Pathfinder files from the website.

This task removes Pathfinder assemblies from [Website]/bin and miscellaneous files from 
[website]/sitecore/shell/client/Applications/Pathfinder.

Any file that is installed by an extension is also removed. 

Files in the Sitecore Data Folder is not removed.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc clean-website
```

## copy-dependencies
The `copy-dependencies` task copies dependency packages to the website.

This task copies files in the [Project]/sitecore.project/packages to [DataFolder]/Pathfinder/Available.

The dependency package are installed when running the `install-package` task.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc copy-dependencies
```

## copy-package
The `copy-package` task copies output files to the website.

This task copies output files to the [DataFolder]/Pathfinder/Available directory.

The output files are generated when running the `pack-nuget` task.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc copy-package
```

## find-references
The `find-references` task outputs all the project items that the specified item references.

This task outputs all references from the specified project item.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc find-references Home
```

## restore-packages
The `restore-packages` task downloads all dependency packages to the [Project]/sitecore.project/packages directory.

Dependency packages are specified in the `dependencies` configuration section.

By default, the Sitecore.Pathfinder.Core package is specified as a dependency for all packages.

The [Tools]/files/repository/sitecore.project/packages directory is always added as a repository.

#### Settings
|-|-
|dependencies:*|A list of dependency packages.
|nuget-repositories:*|A list of NuGet repository URLs.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc restore-packages
```

## show-config
The `show-config` task outputs the effective configuration.

This includes all configuration files, environment variables and command-line switches.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc show-config
```

## show-website
The `show-website` task opens the website in a browser, if a start URL has been set.

#### Settings
|-|-
|show-website:start-url|The URL to open in the browser.

#### Examples
```cmd
scc show-website
```


