# Developer Environment

## Notepad
Everything in Pathfinder is a file, so you can use Notepad to edit any file.

To build the project, simply run the ``scc`` file from the command-line.

## Sublime Text 3
To run Pathfinder as a Build System in Sublime Text 3, configure it like this:

```js
{
	"shell_cmd": "scc.cmd",
    "working_dir": "${project_path:${folder}}"
}
```

## Atom 
[Atom](https://atom.io/) is a good code editor with lots of plugins. You need to install a build package to be
able to run the Pathfinder build pipeline, e.g. [Build](https://github.com/noseglid/atom-build) by nosegild.

After creating an Atom project, the default build task has been configured to execute the build pipeline in Pathfinder. 
In Atom the build task can be executed by pressing Ctrl+Alt+B.

To create a Atom project, run this command ``scc init-atom``. This will create a .atom-build.json file
that contains default configuration for Pathfinder.

## Visual Studio Code

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is a nice code editor. After creating a VS Code project,
the default build task has been configured to execute the build pipeline in Pathfinder. In Code the build task 
can be executed by pressing Ctrl+Shift+B.

To create a VS Code project, run this command ``scc init-vscode``. This will create a .vscode directory
that contains default configuration for Pathfinder.

## Visual Studio

To create a Visual Studio project, run this command ``scc init-visualstudio`` after having initialized the project. This will create a .csproj file and some additional files to 
support Visual Studio and Grunt. Afterwards make sure the run the install-grunt.cmd to install GruntJS. 

To manually create a Visual Studio project:

1. Create a web project in Visual Studio
1. Add a reference to Sitecore.Kernel
1. Install the Pathfinder NuGet package
1. Install GruntJS. Run install-grunt.cmd or
   1. Install GruntJS in the project: npm install grunt --save-dev
   1. Install grunt-shell: npm install --save-dev grunt-shell
1. Right-click gruntfile.js and select Task Runner Explorer
1. Add the following lines to gruntfile.js

```js
module.exports = function (grunt) {
    grunt.initConfig({
        shell: {
            "build-project": {
                command: "scc.cmd"
            },
            "generate-code": {
                command: "scc.cmd generate-code"
            },
            "sync-website": {
                command: "scc.cmd sync-website"
            },
            "validate-website": {
                command: "scc.cmd validate-website"
            }
        }
    });

    grunt.registerTask("build-project", ["shell:build-project"]);
    grunt.registerTask("generate-code", ["shell:generate-code"]);
    grunt.registerTask("sync-website", ["shell:sync-website"]);
    grunt.registerTask("validate-website", ["shell:validate-website"]);

    grunt.loadNpmTasks("grunt-shell");
};
```

10. In Task Runner Explorer, right-click 'build-project' and select Bindings | After Build. This will run Pathfinder after each build.
10. If you want to use code generate, right-click 'generate-code' and select Binding | Before Build.

As a second choice, you can put scc.cmd in the Post-Build Event Command Line.

Thirdly, you add scc.cmd to your .csproj file. To do so, Unload Project in Visual Studio and edit the .csproj file. Add the following lines at the 
appropriate position (usually at the very bottom of the file).

```xml
<Target Name="AfterBuild">
    <Exec Command="scc.cmd" IgnoreExitCode="True"  />
</Target>
```

Visual Studio should now display errors and warning in the Output window and in the Error List window.

